Gwenevere Abriel: Is there any chance you'd be able to be somewhere other than a car today.
Gabriel: The only time available or when I'm at work. I'm trying to park at the moment.
Gabriel: I was at work in my in an office that I borrowed but
Gabriel: It wasn't very private
Gwenevere Abriel: And you don't
Gwenevere Abriel: You don't have any days off during the week right
Gabriel: Well, Friday, Friday, my group.
Gabriel: Maybe I can swap out group and then replace my individual
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, cuz you kind of are in your car for group anyway.
Gabriel: Yeah. But yeah, I mean,
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, let me
Gwenevere Abriel: Let me ask, so I'm
Gwenevere Abriel: At nine o'clock on a Monday what what do you typically doing
Gabriel: I I'm at work at nine.
Gwenevere Abriel: So that's your first work day. Okay.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Huh.
Gabriel: Yeah, that's the problem. And a lot of times, like I work far from home so
Gwenevere Abriel: The reason I'm telling you is, you're, you're not going to get you mean it's one thing we can do this sort of conversation, you know, we can talk about some thoughts and feelings and sort of
Gabriel: Having
Gwenevere Abriel: A discussion, but you're not going to be getting the therapeutic interventions that you would get if you were in in an office or in your home and I don't want you to miss out on this some more psychodynamic
Approaches
Gabriel: I understand that, you know, I was almost gonna dry could say, I'm out, I'm working. Nothing far from home. So I'm looking to drive home but
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's do this. You've got pretty darn good attendance these days. How about how about we do this, um,
Gwenevere Abriel: What if
Gwenevere Abriel: What if next week. You just attend individual therapy and no group and then you attend group on February. Let me see.
Gwenevere Abriel: 28th, if you sort of extended that
Gwenevere Abriel: So we did back to back. Individual therapy. This time, and sort of switched this pattern a little bit so that you're actually home on February 21 which is Friday.
Gabriel: Do you have any, do you have any anything open tomorrow.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's see. Tomorrow's the 13th right now. I have someone from six in the morning, all the way until one
Gwenevere Abriel: Which my time gets into this other
Gwenevere Abriel: Events. So it's pretty packed. I mean, I could. I've been trying out this on call thing where I call people last minute, but I don't think that's what you're getting at. Right.
Gabriel: Well, because since I'm working so close because I'm literally like three blocks from where I live. I can leave a little bit before lunch.
Gabriel: And then just get home and then no one's home during that time. And we can do that. This week until we figure something
Gabriel: A little more, a little better because next week I'm working out of town. So I'll probably get to the hotel in time for for our group for our meeting and the week after that.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, well let's okay so let's do, let's look at
Gabriel: Or what did you recommend. Wait, I just didn't understand what you recommended at first.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I was saying, well, I'm I don't let me, let me just see what I can do before I
Started
Gwenevere Abriel: I like what you're saying, which means
Gwenevere Abriel: You can get to your hotel you could maybe be in a in a different setting.
Gabriel: But this week.
Gabriel: I'm not far from home. Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: What to do
Gwenevere Abriel: I think next Tuesday.
Gwenevere Abriel: At 11
Gwenevere Abriel: This is hard.
Gabriel: You know what I was gonna, I was gonna call in from the office, but
Gabriel: I could I could hear people in the other room and I know that they can hear me. So I'm not going to be at all. Yeah, I better go out and get it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Done. Don't do that to yourself.
Yeah.
Gabriel: I can open up the way I want to be in fear that they gonna hear me or listen and
Gabriel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: The only thing I'm seeing is
Gwenevere Abriel: Nothing.
Gabriel: For at all for next week.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, because I've already got people in there, you know,
That
Gwenevere Abriel: This little spot. So like, okay, that works for my schedule we got kind of what I'm doing with you now. It's like once there.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, you know what I have opened up, you probably won't like this, but if you do, I, I saw someone today instead of 9am on Friday, this coming Friday. But we're meeting now so I don't know it's tell you
Gwenevere Abriel: Any ideas.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, you know what we got to just
Gwenevere Abriel: If you can possibly be in your hotel kind of nestled in a little bit.
Gwenevere Abriel: On the February 26
Gabriel: What is that a day that's not next week, but the week after next
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, that's a Wednesday, the same
Gwenevere Abriel: We're at the same spot 11 o'clock.
Gwenevere Abriel: Could you do you think you could pull that off.
Gabriel: Yeah, we
Gwenevere Abriel: Settled okay we'll just stick with that until some, something else happens here. Alright, so basically everything staying. Exactly.
Gwenevere Abriel: Except you're going to
Gwenevere Abriel: Try to try to get in the hotel I guess kind of nestled in a little bit better so
Gabriel: Yeah, you're a
Gabriel: Las Cruces, I believe that week.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Um, all right, well let's let's work with what we got here.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's been able to do these pieces. And while people are in the car. So let me just see what's possible. I see some different stuff in your car.
Gwenevere Abriel: If you were to place a couple of objects on your dashboard. If I were to try to get some of the bilateral stimulation going, do you have anything in your car that would work like magic that would sit and rest here and here. That would be about a foot and a half apart.
Gabriel: This coke can
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you have to have those
Gabriel: I have a cocaine and a Starbucks cup.
Gwenevere Abriel: Would they sit on your dash, could you get them about a foot and a half apart.
I don't mind it.
Gabriel: Yeah, it looks like it.
Gwenevere Abriel: You. Oh, you would want the phone in between. Sorry.
Gabriel: Between
Gwenevere Abriel: I'll show you why. Because what you would actually be looking at is you'd be looking at the tempo of my finger pointing to one of those objects, you'd be doing this.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, yeah.
Gabriel: Yeah, I think I can.
Gabriel: Okay, I think that works.
Gabriel: Yeah, because I have
Gabriel: Yes, because I have the cocaine here and the Starbucks cup here.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so let me just do a little test. I got to improvise because y'all are mobile
Gwenevere Abriel: That's okay. It's not my first time I've done this with someone in the car. And what they do is they keep they keep just a little bit of tape or sticky.
Gabriel: And then is the sticky notes.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let me just watch your eyes and wants you to be moving them at this point just resting while you're sitting back once you to be looking
Gwenevere Abriel: From the top of that coke can to it be nice if it was a horizontal motion. So from Starbucks cup to coke can and I just want to watch. So I'm gonna
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm going to set the tempo with with my finger. But you don't have to really look at me. See if you can catch the tempo, kind of as a peripheral reference point. But really what you
Gabriel: Want
Gwenevere Abriel: Is you want your eyes to be doing this. Good.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. OK.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let me just set the tempo doing really slow one. So you're just out of the corner of your eye. I want you to be looking at the top of the coke can
Gwenevere Abriel: And the Starbucks. Now I'm seeing it move. You don't want to look at my finger. That's going to be just just referencing the. I'm not going to change the tempo, by the way. So once you've got it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Then just you're looking at this one and then that one and this one and that one and then the transition between them is not as important as you getting left to right. Nice. That was nice and slow. Okay. I like it. I'm going to speed it up. I want to see if you can go a little faster.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now is that straining your eyes because if those objects are too far apart, then it's going to be snow. If I'm doing this and I'm looking all the way over, it's going to pull on the, I guess it's ligaments, or whatever it is, the tendons or something that's holding my balls in my head.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's gonna firm does. Is that how it's feeling or is it comfortable if it's possible, then you want to put right bring them closer
Gabriel: A little bit.
Gwenevere Abriel: Straining as much
Gabriel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, we still want this experience where we're doing this moving left and right because we want to have this left and right hemisphere experience. Does that make sense.
Gwenevere Abriel: Mm hmm. Okay. All right, so I've got the technical parts, just in case it lines up today. So let's spend a little bit of time, what I would call this preparation phase and doing some target mapping with you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Over we already started a, an important part of it, which was starting to look at where you kind of register that 50% of distress. We went up to 90. We also went down to five basically someone insulting you
Gwenevere Abriel: And you were able to laugh it off because you knew. Hey, you're an idiot. I used to be a bully to you're insecure work it out and better than you. Anyway, right. That was like a five, it was like, I'm nothing
Gwenevere Abriel: And then we went to 50 which it was distressing a little bit. It was in that space of
Gwenevere Abriel: When someone doesn't answer you.
Gwenevere Abriel: And got you to this thought of. I don't matter which has a bigger connection for you. That's a really old one, actually, as far back as age six, which was a great deal more
Gwenevere Abriel: Distressing which was up like around a 90 and maybe dad ignoring yo right so the I don't matter at a low level, maybe with Ashley, but when you bring up the bigger one. The older story. It's a little bit even more distressing because it's it's from when you were younger.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's let me just check in now into current. Nope. I got to do more. I got to make sure I don't have any of these things put in here. Let's do some more preparation.
Gwenevere Abriel: Gabriel
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't see written in here. And sometimes it's because the note doesn't move over from the previous note, did you and I developed the protective figure the nurturing figure and the wise figure because I'll pull for a different note, if we already did it.
Gabriel: I don't think we've done that at all.
Gwenevere Abriel: No.
Gabriel: Oh, it's such a
Gwenevere Abriel: Good one. Oh, I love this one. And it's not only useful for in here, but people use it when they want to feel better out in the real world to. So let's do this. I want you to
Gwenevere Abriel: I want you to picture it can be real or imagined.
Gwenevere Abriel: Someone that is a protective figure
Gwenevere Abriel: It can be an animal. It can be anything but it has to really resonate with you and it can't be conflicted. As in, well, sometimes I think this person is protective and other times he kind of puts
Gwenevere Abriel: Me in danger. We don't want that figure we want it pure protective figure and it, but it can be a smashing a blending of multiple figures. So maybe, for me, it's
Gwenevere Abriel: A mama grizzly bear
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. They are very protective.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, and then it might be this other person. And I'm kind of like with them together. It's like this perfect protective figure. So I'm giving you an example just to kind of get your brain going so give you a moment and just kind of turn inward.
Gwenevere Abriel: Just have a flash if maybe people are you felt safe.
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe it wasn't directly in your life who saw it and another family. Maybe you saw it in a book or a movie or maybe in your life and it's up for you.
Gabriel: Um, I think.
Gabriel: You know when you set a mama bear the protective figure. I like to think that that a lion is a protective figure for me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, got it. I like it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, great. And now the next one and nurturing figure. This is the type of figured that promotes your health, your development and your growth.
Gabriel: Probably my mom, mom.
Gwenevere Abriel: He wants you to grow to develop into your full potential that kinda
Gabriel: Yeah.
Gabriel: Yeah, exactly right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh right, and then a wise figure
Gabriel: Why is the figure.
Gwenevere Abriel: Wise wise wisdom. Right.
Yeah.
Gabriel: That one is
Gabriel: Named Hugo in California. He was like a father figure. I mean, growing up.
Gabriel: In Los Angeles.
Gwenevere Abriel: Alright, and let's go over here to another piece of imagery, which has to do with a distancing metaphor. So I want you to
Gwenevere Abriel: Make this very personal to your own preference. So for some people, and I'll list a few of them.
Gwenevere Abriel: For some people, a distancing metaphor. Let's say they have a negative emotion or thought
Gwenevere Abriel: And they want to see it kind of floating down the river there on the on the riverbank with their nurturing protective wise figure and they can kind of see this negative emotion kind of floating away getting further and further away for some people it's a spaceship and
Goes to the moon.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or a balloon funk or on a sailboat near as sort of drifting away. But the neat imagery is that it's getting further and further away. So for you, what would you like your distance distancing metaphor to be
Gabriel: An airplane.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I like it. Okay, airplane and any kind of airplane in particular.
Gabriel: Something that I would distance away from me or something that I would distance myself away from
Gwenevere Abriel: You
Gwenevere Abriel: Know, you'd stay put and the I suppose you could get yourself on there. But for this particular mechanism.
Gwenevere Abriel: I would be using it probably I would direct you to it. Let's like let's say you were getting activated in an activity. It was getting up to the 90s and you're getting quite
Gwenevere Abriel: Quite activated, I might say, let's get a little distance from that. Why don't we put that on the airplane and just sort of kind of say goodbye to it for a while. Maybe you'll see it when it returns. So you'd be putting it on here.
Okay.
Gabriel: Can I use a Greyhound bus and said,
Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: Cool Greyhound bus like it.
Gwenevere Abriel: We got it all right let's keep going. One more. I thought you were in group when we did the container big enough right strong enough to hold all your stuff that one.
Gabriel: I think I missed one group when when I was in North when I was in South Carolina when my brother graduated
Gwenevere Abriel: From the marine yeah
Gabriel: Yeah, maybe they may have been, I grew because I would have remembered that
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, so it is also pretty quick. It doesn't take long. This one is. You know how some people will say, Oh, I just compartmentalize that memory or I don't like to think about something and I
Gwenevere Abriel: I put it in a box. Well, that's what this is. It's putting it in a container. It's an emotional container for most people. It's where they can put their negative emotions.
Gabriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: The requirements are that it be big enough strong enough to hold all your stuff and then it will want to stay there either. You're going to need to lock it up, have a lid.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or there's something in there that that stuff will want to stay in there until you're ready to take it out or you and I decide, we'll, we'll go explore that a little further.
Gwenevere Abriel: So what in your sort of imagination, what came up that a container could be for you.
Gabriel: Um, I was thinking like one of those big whiskey barrels.
Gabriel: Nice okay with the pretty things are pretty strong. And then, um,
Gabriel: Maybe
Gabriel: So I could think of as a container.
Gwenevere Abriel: I think my only challenge as soon as I heard that was the word whiskey in it.
Gabriel: I'm just because it's a specific type of barrel like a big large one. You know that
Gabriel: I can hold something for a long time because we usually hold it for like seven years, depending on the whiskey 12 years
Gabriel: But you know, I wanted, I also was thinking about something else too. I don't like
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, I'm just only because it's whiskey. That's all I don't want any other wanted to be a pure
Gwenevere Abriel: Contain whatever. So I got a little, a little uneasy. Let's keep looking. Keep looking.
I'm
A
Gwenevere Abriel: Big enough and strong enough to hold your stuff.
Gabriel: Maybe we can get a casket.
Heard that one yet.
Gwenevere Abriel: A casket. Okay. And is there a locking mechanism on there.
Gabriel: Yeah, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: And is that a
Gwenevere Abriel: Fingerprint key keypad code which got what kind of lock.
Gabriel: It's one of those combination locks.
Gwenevere Abriel: Are you the only one that has that code.
Gabriel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Beautiful.
Gwenevere Abriel: Not already has the lead attached to it can easily close it and then it's got this combination code.
Gwenevere Abriel: And
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's do a little bit of work with this one.
Gwenevere Abriel: A Truck. Truck this week. The last couple weeks just notice if you were
Gwenevere Abriel: irritated or annoyed by this notion of
Gwenevere Abriel: Not feeling like heard not attended to ignored. Did that come up at all.
Gabriel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Tell me a story when it happened.
Gabriel: Um, well, you know, we talked before how Ashley as a child from her past relationship.
Gabriel: The little girl, her name is rating and
Gabriel: You know she's
Gabriel: Almost four so she you know she gets into things she doesn't listen and
Gabriel: You know, we try to emphasize, sir, you know if she's not behaving. She has to go to her room and she went to a room.
Gabriel: And shut the door and we emphasize that whenever she's in her room, she has to keep her door open. So we know what's going on. And she went into the room.
Gabriel: And shut the door, and I know that actually doesn't like that. So I told her. Hey, now you have to be in timeout. You have to sit on your bed for a few minutes.
Gabriel: Think about what you did. And when you're finished, you can come back and actually got upset me for doing that. And I said, Well, isn't that what we're teaching her and went back and forth about it and
Gabriel: You know. It just bothers me because sometimes, you know, I try to be a father figure as well. And when she challenges. What I do the kids see that and then she's not going to listen to me.
Gabriel: And I tell you these things and she says she understands but you know obviously she doesn't understand what she wants to, you know, she's in a bad mood. And I do that and you know I'm doing something wrong. And so when I bring it up.
Gabriel: You know, then after a little while after that then it'll be okay again. And it's like, you know what, maybe I shouldn't is a discipline or at all, you know,
Gabriel: You should not my kid anyway. And then we start finding about that. And then it's like, you know, all this started because I was telling her to sit on your bed, something that she'd have other time.
Gwenevere Abriel: So it sounds like you thought you were paralleling what the kind of parenting and discipline that Ashley's joining and so were you confused by her reaction.
Gabriel: I was, I was very confused.
Gabriel: And that was an a bother me because it's like, well, what do you want me to do, then
Gabriel: Maybe I should just stay away completely, and let you figure it out.
Gabriel: When but her as an actual
Gabriel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: You. This is familiar and similar to right not being that what you have to contribute, what you have, what, yeah, whatever it is. Is it in that same I don't matter.
Gabriel: Or is it something else. Exactly. It's that's a good point on falls back to that because it's like she's not listening to me when I when I'm trying to explain my methods mind what I'm doing.
Gabriel: Yeah, I didn't know matter because it doesn't matter what I say she has the last day and it's like, how does that equal
Gabriel: What everything she says
Gabriel: It's set in stone, and it's like
Gabriel: Stone.
Gwenevere Abriel: So right now, pay attention to, let's go to that scale. Let's go zero to 100 try and register turn inward right this awareness of how how upset how relaxed or calm is your body and how distressed. Are you let's give it a number zero to 100
Gabriel: Oh, I was like 100 hundred and 10 and it pisses me off.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right now.
Gabriel: Try and register right now when I think about it when I just thought about it.
Gabriel: It's probably like 90 again because it was it really bothers me that really bothered me.
Gabriel: For about an hour, two hours after that.
Gabriel: Okay, I'm gonna kind of segue into other arguments. And it all started because of that. And it really bothered me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I can tell me I write
Gwenevere Abriel: Each for
Gwenevere Abriel: And the same the same thought the belief about yourself. Well, let's let me just check in on that. So, picture that event happening. I tried to do what I thought parallel what she wanted. I thought I was doing exactly what I was supposed to do. And I still got in trouble.
Gwenevere Abriel: You still got yelled at you still got reprimanded for it and you were feeling some confusion and
Gwenevere Abriel: What is the belief about yourself. Let's see.
Gabriel: But
Gabriel: I know that it doesn't matter what I say that I don't matter. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Doesn't matter what I say. Okay.
Gabriel: Yeah, but my opinion means nothing.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you gave it a 90
Gabriel: Yeah, that really bothers me.
Gabriel: And I guess in a way it goes back to that same idea, but in a different way.
Gabriel: And thought about it like that.
Gabriel: So good. I'm looking at it funny to see how it all kind of ties together.
Gabriel: Yeah, so
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's, let's shift gears a little bit. So we have this negative. I call it this negative cognition, right, we have the I don't matter. That's a, that's an important one, and it's it's shown up a few times and maybe even a lot in your, in your life, and
Gwenevere Abriel: What you think about, let's say that same thing you pull up that awareness, pull it into your, your memory. You can picture you brought her and put her on the bed. You put right on the bed. She was kind of she had closed the door, and then you picture Ashley getting upset.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then this I don't matter. Doesn't matter what I say.
Gwenevere Abriel: I want you to think about right now what you want to believe about yourself right in that that same event.
Gwenevere Abriel: But what's an ideal a positive belief about yourself. That would be something you'd like to believe about yourself in an event like that. So take your time.
Gabriel: Yeah, yeah. I want to feel like that I'm being a good day and I'll make
Gwenevere Abriel: It.
Gabriel: Seem like
Gabriel: Anything else
Gabriel: I wanted it. I just because I don't want her to act out that way. You know, when she's 17 it's it's going to be more difficult to deal with when she's 17 and she
Gabriel: disobeying in different ways.
Gabriel: Yeah. Seems like I got away with this so that I could probably get away with it. If not, let me try it anyway. And it doesn't matter because they'll start fighting and they'll forget about what I did. And I'll get away with it. Yeah, that sort of thing. It just so many things can happen when
Gabriel: Things like that happen.
Gwenevere Abriel: OK, so the this positive cognition would be a good dad. So I want to do a little bit. I'm going to call it an iteration, which means I'll be doing some of the bilateral stimulation and
Gwenevere Abriel: Probably about 30 seconds and then you'll see me say, Okay, let's do, let's inhale together. So it will be and then
Gwenevere Abriel: And then I'll say let it go. Now I'll ask a little, little checking question, I'll say, so what's coming up for you.
Gwenevere Abriel: But statement not along why we won't get into storytelling, because we may go right back in to the bilateral stimulation. Okay. When we're talking about something positive.
Gwenevere Abriel: The movement movement is going to be slower, sometimes when we're doing desensitisation it's going to be a little faster. Okay, so right now let's go to that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Lion. Let's go to mom. So see if you can. For now I want you to kind of close your eyes and go there picture lion, the quality of the lion with its protective nature and your mom.
Gwenevere Abriel: And your uncle Hugo
Gwenevere Abriel: And picture. These qualities interacting with each other.
Gwenevere Abriel: Protective nature nurturing and once all interacting and and I want it to be around you.
Gwenevere Abriel: In around immersed saturated, but I want your presence to be there to take your time and once you get a real solid image. Just give me a little head nod to let me know.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so I'm going to ask you.
Gwenevere Abriel: To be to open your eyes. And I'm going to have you look at that top of the coke can and that the pop with that that cop. Okay, so at a nice slow rate just back and forth at the rate that I'm wants you to hold on to that imagery
Gwenevere Abriel: Of this team of lion quality mom.
Gwenevere Abriel: And uncle Hugo
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold it in your awareness.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's bring them together nice nourishing inhale in through the nose and then
Let it go.
Gwenevere Abriel: Just gently a turn to what shifted. What is going on with you now.
Gabriel: I keep thinking of the image.
Gwenevere Abriel: And what emotion. Are you having as you keep thinking about it.
Gabriel: I'm just thinking about those feeling like
Gabriel: comforted and wise.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you're thinking about those qualities and you can really, really see those all you need to do that that check
Gwenevere Abriel: I think it's great that you have the support
Gwenevere Abriel: I wish everyone had this
Gabriel: Yeah, I just, it was getting pretty bad there for a while.
Gabriel: Yeah, I keep I have that image in my mind, and I see my uncle's white beard and my mom and nurse's uniform and a lion and between them to the huge line large strong main
Gwenevere Abriel: And what emotion, you're feeling right now.
Gabriel: Just calm.
Gabriel: Pretty much everything that they represent.
Gwenevere Abriel: Common safe. And then, how's the body, pay attention to scan kind of walks out scan through the feet legs nice size thighs seat bon belly.
Gwenevere Abriel: Chest shoulder want to walk that through and just check in and see if there's any anything going on with the body.
Which are aware of
Gabriel: No, I mean I can use the restroom, but
Gabriel: Nothing. Nothing crazy like no pain or anything.
Gwenevere Abriel: So on the subjective right those suds how distressed. Are you right now from zero to 100
Gabriel: Zero. Okay, no, really distressed at all.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, so that that informs you. I hope that you can see that this imagery that we just pulled up that you can visit that if you start to feel
Gwenevere Abriel: And you can catch it quick enough like I don't matter, right, just as soon as it pops up in your interacting with someone
Gwenevere Abriel: You can say hold on. Before I take action and act out and sort of say something snarky or maybe you don't want to be upset at a 90 or don't want to be angry. You can go to this imagery
Gwenevere Abriel: Do some breathing with it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Be present with all of your needs, sort of being met, right, because we're okay. If we have a protective figure he perceived threat.
Gwenevere Abriel: Of I don't matter. It sort of changes, doesn't it. Once you have nurturing and you have protection and you have wisdom, it shifts the meaning of what's going on around and including in our head.
Gwenevere Abriel: So in general, I would invite you to use that even as a coping skill as an imagery skills that you can visit anytime you want to.
Gabriel: Yes, I remember.
Gabriel: See the thing is that this this last time when that happened with rate in
Gabriel: I didn't remember to do that.
Gabriel: A lot. The last time when we did it a couple Wednesday's ago
Gabriel: That Friday we got into an argument, and I did the breathing that we practice. The reason, hold it for two seconds. Exhale 42nd except I put on my headphones and through on some meditation music and it works great. It works perfectly.
Gabriel: Yeah, I see I just never believe that it would work. You know, so I never gave it a chance to and now let them like, you know, a little bit of time. I need to practice and more often. Is it that
Gwenevere Abriel: You remembered it. Sometimes you'll forget, but just realize that when she noticed how you read a 90 you told me you were at a 90 here's what happens.
Gwenevere Abriel: The VM, Angela. The one that sends the message that you're in danger that one. It only has one job.
Gwenevere Abriel: It only says, you're in danger. It doesn't nuance. The difference between emotional, psychological, physical, it says, you're in danger. There's something really old in the I don't matter. That is, it brings up a really big threat.
Gwenevere Abriel: Perception for you and not all all that's doing is saying, you're in danger. Watch what happens that signal comes up.
Gwenevere Abriel: Even though maybe watch the hippocampus is here and it takes longer for the message from memory stored in hypnosis, where we keep all our memory right he's great little images of remembering to breathe. It's trying to get there, but
Gwenevere Abriel: The amygdala cuts it off if you have too much flooding of fear. Right. It's going to cut off remembering and that's what happened. And then you're just in the emotion.
Oh,
Gwenevere Abriel: So it is hard to remember. But you, you'll get better at it, the more you're practicing the breath. The more you have sticky notes around the more you talk to people and say,
Gwenevere Abriel: If you ever see me really ticked off or upset. Feel free to remind me to take a breath and all know what to do.
Gwenevere Abriel: The more you have visual reminders around if you're not shy about it. I would have them around. I would have them in my room. Wherever I get upset a lot
Gwenevere Abriel: I would have one in the bathroom like do I tend to go in there and kind of chill for a second, like jump in my car. I'm gonna have a sticky note. Yeah, that's right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because when you breathe, then the blood goes to your brain. You've got the Vegas break going here and the different parts of your brain are going to be communicating with each other event. So the breath. It's, it's, it's the boat to that's going to get everything else working so
Gwenevere Abriel: If you forget your normal. That's what everybody does, we all forget to do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: The more reminders, you have, the more familiar and then you'll have more more wiring, it'll be easier to remember, so hang in there. We'll get there, but at least you have this like AHA experience of. I can't believe it actually works. I thought it was just for a piece or something, right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now,
Gwenevere Abriel: Leave it for it to work. That's what's neat because it's not
Gwenevere Abriel: In your head. It's also right it's an actual nerve wrapped around your organs. I mean, it's this is science. This is not just
Gabriel: That that I was like, what in NASA work.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, okay. So sometimes you forget. That's okay. And so I'm just adding to to your toolbox of things that you can remember to remember this one, you remember, wait a minute. When I first started talking about this with planetary was at MIT.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then all I did was picture this line in between my mom and and nooses uniform and white beard on an uncle to go, hey, and you had a column body.
Gwenevere Abriel: So it isn't just what we would call the breathing is is a bottom up intervention. Right. It started with that origins and one of the most about the one we just did was hop down you use imagery and you regulate the body with the mind.
Gabriel: Cool stuff. Yeah, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you have access to that. So that was a sort of a preparation, just to see how easily you can access that imagery and I can see that you can easily was exciting.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gabriel: Yeah, when when when I did that with the meditation music and after like 10 minutes. I was just like, Wow, I can't believe that work.
Gabriel: It was, it was really cool.
Gabriel: It was a really cool experience.
Gabriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: Because we're at a quarter of I, I don't want to start something else. I don't want to unravel some of the negative stuff. I like where we're at right now. I like that you're calm that you have this nice feeling when we say they're a little bit longer. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, and let's talk more about what's been working. Let's get behind some of the things you mentioned the diaphragm breathing has been effective.
Gwenevere Abriel: What else have you liked that you've been doing let's let's do some
Gwenevere Abriel: improv. Let's look at, okay, cool things like
Gabriel: I haven't really been doing much else.
Gabriel: Trying to stay calm and practicing those breathing exercises. Whenever I remember to do them. I do them like I did. I'm a little while ago.
Gabriel: Just, you know, just trying to regulate my, my heart rate and remembering how to do it correctly.
Gabriel: So like a good sometimes I don't think I'm taking deep enough breaths or exhaling, or sometimes I'll hold it a little, a little oh yeah like
Gabriel: A little bit more than two seconds.
Gwenevere Abriel: Doesn't matter. So the reason why we teach it with the with the inhale for four hold for four exhale for for whole for for because it's it's it's easy to teach what I've noticed is that exhale that you do may take six seconds.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's a, it's a very powerful part of the breath work. So go for it. And when, after you exhale, and you do the whole you may only be able to hold it for a couple seconds and that's fine. It's really about
Gwenevere Abriel: paying close attention versus
Gwenevere Abriel: Just that's not going to cut it. It's my counting on my noticing where that error is going in my trying my
Gwenevere Abriel: My best to get it down there in the diaphragm area, pushing, pushing all that air down into the bottom of the lungs. Am I doing that, am I paying attention. I mean we knows, those are the key pieces.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm trying to do, it's important but labeling yourself if you're not is going to get you now into a negative
Gwenevere Abriel: Framework. We don't want that. We don't want you calling yourself names we want
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. Oh, I noticed I noticed my shoulders just dropped as I just inhale, like those those mindfulness awareness is are good but labels about how you're whether you're doing it right or not or best not what we want. We don't want negative judgment about yourself.
Gwenevere Abriel: That makes sense.
Gabriel: Yeah, that makes perfect sense.
Gabriel: It was a yeah it was just something I was thinking about, because sometimes they would take me a little longer than four seconds. Exhale, but
Gwenevere Abriel: Then
Gabriel: Like disrupt my breathing. Yeah. What. All right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, that's no it's just fine. It's the concentration on it up.
Gwenevere Abriel: In observer a look. Look, I'm look I'm doing it for seven where I was, I was doing it for for six
Gwenevere Abriel: Now I'm doing that. So, um,
Gwenevere Abriel: Before we go, I just want to just check in on we, you and I, either a, you know, an individual and then again in group had had kind of covered that drama triangle right
Gabriel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: You had a chance to witness either yourself moving from from those rigid roles and maybe also you and Ashley Romanian other relationships, and if so, tell me about it.
Gabriel: Yeah, I've noticed how actually does. Does that, does the whole drama triangle like I've watched her go from
Gabriel: Hero to victim to
Gabriel: The only
Gabriel: Those are the only two I can remember but
Gwenevere Abriel: persecutor when she gets mad at you.
Gabriel: Yo. Yeah, yeah.
Gabriel: All the time. All the time now.
Gabriel: I think it has a little orange square, triangle. And I'm just like the way you look at that.
Gabriel: Yeah, it's yeah like I can't remember what she was doing but she was trying to do something and then she's like, Oh, well, I'm just trying to help.
Gabriel: I'm like okay well I guess I don't have to help you find a wanted even. I'm like, well,
Gabriel: Yeah, and it's funny to see like how it just changes so quickly like within seconds, very fast, very fast.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you can create compassion, believe it or not, in those moments for people because they don't know what you know they don't know that there's freedom from there literally when we don't have
Gwenevere Abriel: The information to realize
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm doing it, I can now free myself from that I can opt out, and I can do those other like I can be an advocate coach. I can do those roles more
Gwenevere Abriel: You can find compassion, if you want to, for her, if you want to you can be like, well, I imagine that would be hard, like in your mind, imagine that'd be hard because she doesn't know any other way to be
Gwenevere Abriel: She's grasping at this ability to control the best way she knows how if you want to kind of meet her with compassion that would be a way to do it because she doesn't know any other way. Right. She's not the one in therapy.
Gabriel: So how do you, how do you bring it up.
Gwenevere Abriel: I am not saying to bring it up.
I'm saying
Gwenevere Abriel: This is going on in your head, your head because what will happen if you have compassion for someone while they're going through that. That means that you're not this little fish that bit. Oh, well fine.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm only trying to help get you won't help you know what i'm not going to help anymore. I'm going to offer you don't think I'm it
Gwenevere Abriel: You don't fight that bait, you just look at her and say to yourself in your head that would be hard because
Gwenevere Abriel: She doesn't know what else to do but I can see how solidify those roles are and you don't say anything.
Gwenevere Abriel: You just, you're just a witness to it, but you don't get upset. You don't have to change her
Gwenevere Abriel: Not to do any of it, you're free now. Now you can see it. It's this time, I know all she's doing is moving from these places and you just you're at peace with yourself. Go with your team lion mom Hugo
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. You're not activated. Now you can see it from a distance. You see it over there. She's go now. Now she's mad at you because you're not reacting. Now if you don't react. She's getting pissed off at you.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's going to keep going. It's going to move, move, move until she gets a reaction from you.
Gwenevere Abriel: But you don't have to. That's how you opt out. You just that looks
Gwenevere Abriel: That looks hard going through. That's all you say it looks like you're you're having a hard time of it right now.
That looks hard
Gabriel: It's funny that you mentioned that because last night.
Gabriel: She found like so this Saturday we celebrated my son's one way. The third one.
Gabriel: First, and we celebrated one year old birthday. Yeah. On Saturday.
Gabriel: Yeah, he's a very nice boy and
Gabriel: So we've had some people over and this last night she found like a like a like a like a nail like a woman's nail
Gabriel: On the on the carpet and she picked it over, she said, Whoa, what is that like I was like, I don't know. And she picked it up. She's like, it's a woman's nail and like
Gabriel: I was like, well, it's talking about now looks like it looks like a kids and and she's like, No, it's definitely a woman's now.
Gabriel: I was like, well, it looks like it was bought at the dollar store or something. And she's like, uh huh. And like looking at an examining it
Gabriel: And now in my head like, and I was trying to be like, Oh, well, maybe it's this or maybe it's this and
Gabriel: I was like in my head I was like, why am I, and like trying to defend myself like I did something wrong. You know, because I'm I already know in her head, she's thinking oh maybe brought a girl over and I was like, it's probably my sisters from the party this weekend.
Gabriel: Yeah. And then I was like I was like her. And she was like, so I just didn't say anything. I just let her you know go deal with it in her own on our own, and
Gabriel: After about 30 minutes like I could see that she was trying to bait me, and I'll get a reaction out of me. Or, you know,
Gabriel: Try to control me in a way, it's like, look, I'm going to do this and then he's going to do this like I already know in their mind.
Gabriel: But I saw that. So I didn't do anything. I didn't, you know, didn't try to play the say like, Oh my God, or maybe it says, or, you know, I didn't get nervous or
Gabriel: I did a little bit. I stopped out any minute. She's gonna say this I say that, and like I felt like I took control of the situation. I sent me Emily, whatever.
Gabriel: And I just left it alone. And sure enough, it's the over it. Few minutes late or took like an hour, but she
Gabriel: felt like that was a learning moment for me because yeah because I was like the old me would have been like, well, maybe it was, you know, tried making you know try to finding a reason. So I so she doesn't think that it was me, but somehow I had a woman over there, something like that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Work harder to convince her out. And instead, you didn't work as hard and you kind of left the room and she was left to try and figure it out on our own.
Gabriel: Exactly. And she when she figured out that she's the crazy one
Down so good.
Gabriel: Well, I mean, I would like to think that
Gwenevere Abriel: No, because no
Gwenevere Abriel: One. Of, you know, you just you do best guess she has a particular meaning out of it now.
Gwenevere Abriel: Both of you have to make it up unless you have a video of that room to rewind and
Gabriel: So, but she she knows she knows she knows that that didn't happen you know she knows that she knows I wouldn't do that. But she's trying to make me think that she thinks that so she can get a reaction out of me. So she can feel like she's in control. I go, I'll have to do this and then
Gabriel: I'll make him do this, I already know you know that's at least that's what I think. But I was able to overcome that and I know I'm in control of my own emotion and you're not going to do that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Very nice. You had a learning moment, as you said,
Gabriel: Huh, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And just to touch slightly on some of the the pieces around the substance use of you had waves of strong cravings are they really further and further getting further and further apart.
Gabriel: But the other. I don't really
Gabriel: The thing was before my God that I would
Gabriel: Get the drug from what call me like if you didn't hear from me for like a week or so he would send me text messages little reminder that I have this and I have this and then that will kick into my mind. So, Ashley went into my phone and block his number
Gabriel: So now I can't get any messages. So now it's been easier now it's just trying to get off of these
Gabriel: Beautiful.
Gabriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: And are you happy with the rate that you're tapering, you can certainly speak your mind and most people have ambivalence about
It.
Gwenevere Abriel: I want to do it every week. I'm nervous, but at the same time. I'm excited. Now you have a part in this in this
Gabriel: I mean, I am excited because I don't want it. I just don't want to.
Gabriel: Withdraw or feel like I need it and
Gwenevere Abriel: You're doing the work. A real you're meeting with me. You're catching yourself doing learning moments you caught yourself breathing, you had success around that basically
Gwenevere Abriel: That's what everybody's doing we're all trying to meet the stresses of our life as gracefully as we can. It's not some big magic thing that
Gwenevere Abriel: folks that aren't in in sort of this addictive pattern we don't hold some magic mystery here we just do the things that work in a healthy way. And all it means is somewhere along the line.
Gwenevere Abriel: This stuff wasn't taught to you and now you're learning it so just you're doing it. You're right on time okay right on time.
And speaking of time.
Gabriel: Yeah, I just don't want them cuz they the church closes at noon.
Gwenevere Abriel: Today,
Gabriel: Sounds good were scheduled for Wednesday at 11am
Gwenevere Abriel: On the 26th. I'll see you then. And
Gwenevere Abriel: 2026 is a Wednesday.
Gabriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah 26 is 11am and then I'll see you this Friday in group right
Gabriel: Yes, yeah. We'll be there.
Gabriel: By Friday.
Gabriel: Thank you.
Gabriel: Bye.